
Mutator	Description
Unique (one at a time)

Comfort Zone	You will slowly lose your health (2% of health per second) when there are no teammates within 5 meters (16 feet) of you for more than 5 seconds.

Personal Space	You will slowly lose your health (2% of health per second) when there is at least one teammate within 5 meters (16 feet) of you for more than 5 seconds.

Hunger	You will begin to slowly lose your health 10 seconds after your last zombie kill (0.5% of health per second).
Unique (one at a time)

Perfect Condition	You can't die by being incapacitated, but every incapacitation will decrease your max health by 25% (but no less than 10% of it's [sic] original value).

Instadeath	When your health reaches zero, you will die instantly instead of being incapacitated first.

1 UP	You won't be able to respawn and get back into the fight after you die.

Iron Man	You have only one chance to live. When your health reaches zero, you will die with no respawn [sic] for the remainder of the mission.
Unique (one at a time)

Special Forces*	Special zombies will arrive twice as often as usual but zombie waves will be smaller.

Cannon Fodder*	There will be no special zombies but zombie waves will be more numerous.
Unique (one at a time)

Crossbow Fiesta	Everyone gets a free crossbow and can't have any other primary weapon.

Shotgun Fiesta	Every player gets a shotgun and can only find shotguns as primary and secondary weapons on the mission.

Wild West	Everyone gets a repeating rifle and a revolver but can't have any other weapons.
Unique (one at a time)

Restless Hordes	Zombie waves will arrive twice as often.

Light Waves*	Zombie waves will be twice shorter.
Unique (one at a time)

All Flash, No Bang	There will be more primary and secondary weapons scattered throughout the level, but you won't find ammo crates.

Heavy Hitters*	You'll find many more heavy weapons than usual on the mission.

Gun Shortage	The only new weapons you'll find on the mission are heavy weapons. Heavy weapons have twice more ammo.

Looting Is a Crime	You will find far fewer pickups in the mission.
Unique (one at a time)

Nemesis	You will be chased throughout the entire mission by a Bull that can't be killed.

Hot-tempered Bull	An unusual Bull appears. An explosion occurs each time a grabbed survivor is smashed against the ground.
Common (several can be used at once)

Empty Pockets	Carried ammo for primary and secondary weapons reduced by 50%.

Ammo Dump	When reloading a weapon, all ammo left in the magazine will be lost.

Low Capacity	Primary and secondary weapon magazines are reduced by 50%.

Rookie	All your class perks except for the first one won't work.

Slow	You can't sprint.

Asthma	You will slowly lose your health (3% per second) when sprinting.

Small Pharma	You won't find any medical items on the mission.

Defenseless	You won't find any defense kits or defenses on the mission. Heavy weapons have more ammo.

Shaky Hands	Shooting on the move and without aiming is extremely inaccurate.

Limited Reach	All firearms will deal insignificant damage on [sic] distance longer than 50 meters (165 feet)

Thief	No ammo crates, but each melee kill restores 3% of your primary and secondary weapon's ammo. +50% melee damage to zombies.

Looter	You won't find equipment bags on the mission, but your equipment will be constantly regenerating (100 seconds to replenish to maximum).

Revenge	Team members will produce a huge explosion when they die.

I Feel Your Pain	A randomly chosen player will have 100% more health, but all damage taken by the team redirects to him. If he dies, it's game over.

Treason	Friendly fire is tripled for the whole team.

Weakness	Melee attacks do 75% less damage than they normally would.

Night Time	Many more idle zombies will be scattered throughout the levels.

Pinned Down	You can be pinned to the ground by far fewer zombies than usual.

Elite Squad*	You can encounter unusual zombies who are very hard to kill. They're very slow but they can instantly pin you down.

A Dud	All explosives do 75% less damage to zombies.

Iron Hide	Zombies are harder to stagger with bullet hits.

Undying	Special zombies will have twice as much health as usual.

Just a Scratch	Zombies won't take any damage from headshots.

Chainsaw Massacre	Only chainsaws are available as heavy weapons for the entire mission.

Die Hard*	All team members have 50% more health.

Class Weakness: Gunslinger	Gunslinger will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Hellraiser	Hellraiser will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Medic	Medic will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Fixer	Fixer will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Slasher	Slasher will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Exterminator	Exterminator will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Dronemaster	Dronemaster will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Class Weakness: Vanguard	Vanguard will have 50% less health and will inflict 50% less damage to enemies.

Airstrike	Mortar attacks periodically occur during the wave.

The Impaler	Health is restored on a melee kill, but medkits are no longer found on the mission.

What was that boom?	All primary weapons have explosive ammo.

Double benefit	All secondary weapons deal double damage.

Lifebuoy	When you revive an ally, you both gain a masking effect for 6 seconds.

Leg Day	When climbing, the player loses some health and all stamina.

Primary Weakness	Primary weapon damage is reduced by 75%.

Healing Explosions	Explosions from devices and heavy weapons restore health.

Mined corpses	Zombies killed by headshots explode, but only players take damage from the explosion.

Homeopathy	After receiving healing from medical items, you lose the ability to sprint for 20 seconds.

Expired Medicine	You will find twice as many medkits than usual on the mission, but medkits heal 50% less.

Advertisement
Cannot be chosen by players
These mutators cannot be selected by players in Private Online matches, but they can be picked randomly by the game for Challenge Modes.

Mutator	Description

Especially Dangerous	Special zombies leave poisonous clouds upon death which last for 1 minute

Sinusitis	The Infector's spitting distance is doubled
Exclusive to the Horde Mode
The following mutators are only available in Horde Mode Challenges.

Mutator	Description

Airstrike	The mortar shell can land in three random locations.

Drone Army	Each player gets a temporary drone.

Free Meds	Free medicine becomes available in the main shop.

The Pursuers	Players can encounter slow, more resilient zombies during the wave that can revive and pursue players until the end of the wave.

Free Supply	Free gear bags become available in the main shop.

Sell-Out	Defense kits start having a discount.

Taxes	Defense kits start costing more.

My chainsaw and me	A random player receives a chainsaw with infinite ammo. This player cannot use other weapons.

Resistant skin	Zombies do not take electrical damage but can still be stunned.

Especially Dangerous	Special zombies leave poisonous clouds upon death, which disappear at the end of the wave
